z report on your the Z report and you
know I talked a lot on my blog about how
important alex gibbs hire is for the
Houston Texans because he's so good at
teaching blocking the zone scheme and
getting guys to to get to places quickly
make the blocks another use technique
and most importantly I think also really
start to implement some better cut
locking but he's also very good because
he understands what it takes to be good
at the tackle and guard position in this
particular brand of offense and I think
that's going to help Rick Smith and Gary
Kubiak when it comes to finding talent
now get Kylie Wong former Texans
linebacker here with us and Kylie let's
talk about the need for the Texans
offensive line me to have good feet to
get to the quote unquote second level
which is the linebackers and and how
some of the blocking has to transpire
why don't you take us through this is
basic seven man in a box for three we
got a 4-3 front here show us what will
take place let's say we're where you can
run it to you basically what this is
this is seven in the box this could
either be this is a cover to shell so
you can be playing cover for out of it
or you could be playing true cover to
you see the safety split in the the
direction right there and see we're
going to go with an outside zone play
something at where we know from Gary
Kubiak he likes to run and in kind of
getting away from more from the Mike
Sherman power type plays and so what
you're going to see here is the first
thing you'll start we'll start with the
center the center is actually very very
critical in order in order to getting to
you know to running this play well
because he has to partially chip this
guy slow hint the nose down long enough
for this guy to come through and scoop
and then get up on to the next level
usually by that time the mic should be
passed but if you can get the mic he
automatically makes a huge lane for the
running back to run through so that it
kind of starts with the center there
this tackle even though you think
tackles are big guys and in slow guys
they're generally trying to get to the
next level they're going to completely
let this guy go free saying the he will
not be able to get
to the running back and the bootleg
threat will obviously slow him down and
this guy will try to get all the way
down here and cut off this linebacker so
right there and those out of the first
three offensive lineman you're seeing
two of them are getting going straight
directly two linebackers so they're
having to get at least five yards deep
into the backfield and get a to a guy
that's pretty quick and elusive and then
is paid to obviously be double that is
what is referred to as the second level
is being able to get two linebackers
which in many times as you mentioned
with centers of some type guards
depending on the alignment they are
going to have a quick chip but then if
they can get the chip and then get to
the second level that's where successful
Ryan attacks take place absolutely take
us through the outside to point out the
place like there's going to be two
different ways you can do this you could
go you can go double team here and try
to try to get to the second level or if
you have a very very athletic guard you
feel as though can really get this hook
block which is a tough block in NFL but
there are guys that do do it to where he
can actually pin this pack right here
get outside and pin the three techniques
tackle if you do that you create a huge
gap for you to push this guy and go on
here and I tell you what this guy can be
running through to clean up either the
mic if used to come free or go all the
way to the safety and you see how big if
this Center can get the block on the mic
which you know the very good centers
olin kreutz is able to do it Matt Birk
can do it how big you can get that guy
on the second level and this guy's
literally one on one with the free
safety now it also really shows why it's
important to have guards with great feed
because to be able to make that like the
first thing you have to do if you don't
have the feet and the ability to reach
to it your ma your first step has to be
great your technique has to be perfect
and your quickness has to be there to be
able to do that let's go through up
through make the Box show us the box
because that's what you know the good
teams can still run against eight the
box i'll let you draw it back up good
teams can still run eight in the box but
that puts even more emphasis on being
able to get to the second level
and be effective as well and that's
where I think the let's run it let's see
a little inside zone play where you get
a little backside cut back show us a
back side right and how cut blocking
might be important for the Houston
Texans on the back side from their
tackles well so basic format 043
alignment we're going to love at the mic
of the well backers there and here's the
Sam but then we're going to sneak the
strong safety up into the box up over
the tight end so he's got coverage on
tight end if the tithing comes out or
he's basically also going to help on the
strong side there right watch it runs
through why the footwork becomes more
imperative for the line this is this is
a true cover three or it could be a
man-to-man alignment to where you know
basically these three are going to be
responsible for the two backs the strong
safety could be responsible there
they're locked up and you have a man
free or it's you know just you know 400
III deep coverage and you want to see
what exactly well let's see let's see a
little inside zone and then create a
cutback like I'm running okay it's it's
still a very similar the zone is
predicated on moving people so let's
just we're going to take the zone we're
going to start moving everybody this way
okay and as a defensive player Kylie
when you saw your when you're keen on
offense along whoever your key was and
everyone has different keys as soon as
they start moving you're on a dead
sprint moving as well especially on the
wide Sulli all these second level
players for defense are not watching the
running back there watching their
offensive line tips because that's
that's ultimately what's going to take
you to the ball fastest night because
running backs will always do some
misdirection or always miss lead you on
on what they're trying to show you to
try to get you out of position so so
here's a situation to where they are
pressing the corner you know it can go
out in a number of different ways but
they're literally trying to make
everybody run so this guy is running to
try to hold his 3-technique position and
this is a good example of when we talked
about how that guard if he can hook this
this 3-technique this tackle let's just
say in this case the tackle stays on the
outside part of the guard right so he's
run and hook them he cannot hook okay
he's running so hard at that point it's
called a BIM block he can literally turn
and wheel and
pin that and you see everybody's running
like this everybody's running this block
right here is a cut block so this nose
is down so now you have the center up on
the mic quickly and you'll see you can
kind of see if this is pinned here and
that's their the sand will run himself
out of the play that's where this
cutback Lane goes and it goes north and
south in a hurry and it creates a
one-on-one situation with just
appreciation yes of the kind leak in the
center where usually this is a little
combination where he's chipping and then
get into the next level if he's going to
cut it can the center even be involved
even in chipping there's that considered
engaged probably if it's not going to be
a true engagement you'll probably almost
just be almost a run pocket it'll be
like a brush fire like whether he's
ripping through or whether you show the
show right let's say you're the center
and I'm going to be the nose tackle
you're going to come on be shaded this
way up and I mean it might be just
something as simple as just that so you
get up to the second level just slow
down just enough keep them on get on
that track so that that offensive guard
can get to them and that will be a
couple lock he'll go down and you'll see
a gaping hole go in there if this guy if
the three-technique keeps up and eat
seals and that's where alex gibbs in the
cup locket is so very important for this
system and i think that's where you're
going to see a huge improvement guys
being willing guys being physically able
because their athleticism to get their
cut blocks taken care of that's football
school Lancer OIC report that's kind of
Lee Wong thanks Kylie What's Wrong grub
for you guys to the draft gets blue